Readme.md, before:

[![Build Status][travis-image]][travis-url][![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/pbrianmackey/ES6/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/pbrianmackey/ES6)

#About

Introduction to ES6.  In this project I introduce concepts and code samples covering the latest and greatest in JavaScript. This project uses a "transpiler" called Babel to generate ES5 code from ES6 code that can run in any modern browser.

###Brown Bag Notes

Notes for doing this presentation in brown bag.

- Turn ES6+ code into vanilla ES5 with no runtime
- Demo Babel's "Try it out"

##Setup Process

- Recommend running: npm install -g karma-cli (global accessibility of Karma)
- Run npm install at the root directory where you clone the project.

####Demo (powered by jasmine and Karma)

- First time run Setup Process
- cd ~/ES6/
- npm install
- babel src --watch --out-dir tests
- karma start
- Don't open the files in tests/ as this will messup babel file generation.

#JavaScript 6 Concepts

##let

let allows us to define variables.  var only has two scopes:  global and function (0 or 100).  let gives us block scope!

**always use let over var to avoid variable hoisting in functions**



##const

- const will have block scoping just like the let keyword.  

##Destructuring

- Destructuring comes from other languages.  It's a powerful feature.
- It may be one of the more difficult ones to grasp at first.
- Demo

##Default parameter values

- Same syntax as C# function(name="Brian")
- Null will not

##Default values

- Undefined works with default params, null overrides the default param value with the value null.

it("works with descructuring", function() {
  let doWork(function() {
            url,
            {data = "Brian", cache = true}){
              return data;
            });

      let result = doWork(
          "api/test",
          {
            cache: false
          }
        );

        expect(result).toBe("Brian");
    })
  });

##Rest Parameters

- Always the last parameter in a function.  
- Rest parameters allow access to [array methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) such as (forEach)
- Rest parameters make it clear how many arguments are allowed

```javascript
let sum = function(...numbers) {
  let result = 0;
  for(let i = 0; i < numbers.length; i++){
    result += numbers[i];
  }
  return result;
}
```

##Spread

- Similar to Rest parameters.  used outside parameters you can turn an array into individual elements with Spread.

```javascript
var result = doWork(...[1,2,3]);
//is equivalent to...
var result = doWork(1,2,3);

//you can also combine arrays
var array1 = [1,2,3];
var array2 = [...array1,4,5,6];//1,2,3,4,5,6
```

##Template Literals

- Similar to C#'s token string replacement

```javascript
it("can create url's", function() {
  let lookup = "customerLookup";
  let id = "id"
  //note the back-tick
  let url = `http://myserver/api/${lookup}/${id}`

  expect(url).toBe("http://myserver/api/customerLookup/id")
}

```
- [Tagged templates](http://people.mozilla.org/~jorendorff/es6-draft.html#sec-tagged-templates) can transform strings in interesting ways:

```javascript
let x = 1;
let y = 2;
var result = upper `${x} + ${y} is ${x+y}`;
//outputs "1 + 2 IS 3"
```
- custom tags, localization and html encoding to help prevent XSS attacks are possible.
- A DSL that returns structured data types can also be built.

##Classes

Underneath the covers Classes are still built with prototypes.

```javascript
class Employee{
  doWork() {
    return "working";
  }
}

//is equivalent to

var Employee = function() {

}

Employee.prototype = {
    doWork: function() {
    return "working";
  }
}

//both are instantiated and run via:
var employee = new Employee();
employee.doWork();
```

###More on classes

- Constructors

```javascript
var Employee = function() {
    var constructor(){//cstor invoked by new
        this._name;//this is required to specify the object owns _name not the current scope.
    }

    getName(){
      return this._name;
    }
}
```
-Get/set is supported.  change getName() above to:

```javascript
get name(){

}
//accessible as employee.name
```
- Inheritance is supported via:

```javascript
class Employee extends Person {

}
```
- Implicit inheritance to Object

##Overrides

- Access the Person class with "super"

```javascript
class Employee extends Person {
  doWork() {
    //super();//optionally call Superclass
    //by default using super() will invoke method
    //by the same name in superclass
    //Or override Superclass.doWork()
    return "did something";
  }
}
```
##Functional Programming

- forEach: Allows passing in a function
- map: Similar to Select in C#.  Can transform data by passing in a function.

##Arrows

- => has a lexical binding to this.  Meaning we no longer have to use the trick:

```javascript
//old way
it('this is self in a closure', function(done) {
  var self = this;
  self.name = "Brian";

  setTimeout(() => this{
    expect(self.name).toBe("Brian");
    done();
  }, 15);
});

//new way
it('lexically binds to this', function(done) {
  this.name = "Brian"

  setTimeout(() => this{
    expect(this.name).toBe("Brian");
    done();
  }, 15);
});
```
##Iterators

```javascript
//Low level example
let sum = 0;
let numbers = [1,2,3,4];
let iterator = numbers.values();
let next = iterator.next();
while(next.done){
  sum += next.value;
  next = iterator.next();
}
```
- for of similar to C#'s foreach.  Works with iterators that have no length and no known end.

```javascript
for(let n of numbers){
  console.log(n);
}
```

##Generators

- Generators are functions that create iterators.

```javascript
let numbers = function*(){
  yield 1;
  yield 2;
  yield 3;
}
```
##Comprehensions

-terse syntax for building arrays and generators.

```javascript
//Array comprehension syntax
var numbers = [for(n of [1,2,3]) n * n];
expect(numbers).toEqual(1,4,9);

//Array comp. with predicate
var numbers3 = [for (n of [1,2,3]) if(n > 1) n * n];
expect(numbers3).toEqual([4,9]);

//Generator syntax
var numbers3 = (for (n of [1,2,3]) n * n);
expect(Array.from(numbers3)).toEqual([1,4,9]);

//yield Generation
yield* (for (item of items) if(predicate(item)) item);
```

- Use Array comprehension when you want to be lazy.

##Modules

Originated with [CommonJS](http://www.commonjs.org/).  Then, Javascript broke away from the browser into stand alone apps like nodejs.  This made Asynchronous module loading more important.  AMD or Asynchrnous Module Definition arose in platforms like requireJS.  Script loading is also optimized at runtime to have fewer and smaller downloads.

During development we want the modules to be split up into individual parts.  

##Using ES6 Today

- Angular 2.0, Ember and [Aurelia](http://aurelia.io/) are being developed in ES6.
- More and more companies are using ES6 in production today.
- Transpilers
- Execution environment:  node or browser
- Polyfills/Shims
- [ES6 Features](https://github.com/lukehoban/es6features#symbols)
- [More ES6 Features](https://github.com/addyosmani/es6-tools)
- [Compatability Chart](http://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es6/)
- ES6 and ES5 shims

[travis-url]:  https://travis-ci.org/pbrianmackey/ES6
[travis-image]: https://travis-ci.org/pbrianmackey/ES6.svg

Commit message:

added notes.  Added node files for export/import demo.  added tests

Readme.md, after:

[![Build Status][travis-image]][travis-url][![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/pbrianmackey/ES6/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/pbrianmackey/ES6)

#About

Introduction to ES6.  In this project I introduce concepts and code samples covering the latest and greatest in JavaScript. This project uses a "transpiler" called Babel to generate ES5 code from ES6 code that can run in any modern browser.

###Brown Bag Notes

Notes for doing this presentation in brown bag.

- Turn ES6+ code into vanilla ES5 with no runtime
- Demo Babel's "Try it out"

##Setup Process

- Recommend running: npm install -g karma-cli (global accessibility of Karma)

####Demo (powered by jasmine and Karma)

- First time run Setup Process
- cd ~/ES6/
- npm install
- babel src --watch --out-dir tests and babel external --watch --out-dir externalGenerated (node files)
- karma start
- Don't open the files in tests/ as this will messup babel file generation.
- Files in ./externalGenerated are intended to be run by node directly.
  - E.G. in the command line run "node ./external/import.js"

#JavaScript 6 Concepts

##let

let allows us to define variables.  var only has two scopes:  global and function (0 or 100).  let gives us block scope!

**always use let over var to avoid variable hoisting in functions**



##const

- const will have block scoping just like the let keyword.  

##Destructuring

- Destructuring comes from other languages.  It's a powerful feature.
- It may be one of the more difficult ones to grasp at first.
- Demo

##Default parameter values

- Same syntax as C# function(name="Brian")
- Null will not

##Default values

- Undefined works with default params, null overrides the default param value with the value null.

it("works with descructuring", function() {
  let doWork(function() {
            url,
            {data = "Brian", cache = true}){
              return data;
            });

      let result = doWork(
          "api/test",
          {
            cache: false
          }
        );

        expect(result).toBe("Brian");
    })
  });

##Rest Parameters

- Always the last parameter in a function.  
- Rest parameters allow access to [array methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) such as (forEach)
- Rest parameters make it clear how many arguments are allowed

```javascript
let sum = function(...numbers) {
  let result = 0;
  for(let i = 0; i < numbers.length; i++){
    result += numbers[i];
  }
  return result;
}
```

##Spread

- Similar to Rest parameters.  used outside parameters you can turn an array into individual elements with Spread.

```javascript
var result = doWork(...[1,2,3]);
//is equivalent to...
var result = doWork(1,2,3);

//you can also combine arrays
var array1 = [1,2,3];
var array2 = [...array1,4,5,6];//1,2,3,4,5,6
```

##Template Literals

- Similar to C#'s token string replacement

```javascript
it("can create url's", function() {
  let lookup = "customerLookup";
  let id = "id"
  //note the back-tick
  let url = `http://myserver/api/${lookup}/${id}`

  expect(url).toBe("http://myserver/api/customerLookup/id")
}

```
- [Tagged templates](http://people.mozilla.org/~jorendorff/es6-draft.html#sec-tagged-templates) can transform strings in interesting ways:

```javascript
let x = 1;
let y = 2;
var result = upper `${x} + ${y} is ${x+y}`;
//outputs "1 + 2 IS 3"
```
- custom tags, localization and html encoding to help prevent XSS attacks are possible.
- A DSL that returns structured data types can also be built.

##Classes

Underneath the covers Classes are still built with prototypes.

```javascript
class Employee{
  doWork() {
    return "working";
  }
}

//is equivalent to

var Employee = function() {

}

Employee.prototype = {
    doWork: function() {
    return "working";
  }
}

//both are instantiated and run via:
var employee = new Employee();
employee.doWork();
```

###More on classes

- Constructors

```javascript
var Employee = function() {
    var constructor(){//cstor invoked by new
        this._name;//this is required to specify the object owns _name not the current scope.
    }

    getName(){
      return this._name;
    }
}
```
-Get/set is supported.  change getName() above to:

```javascript
get name(){

}
//accessible as employee.name
```
- Inheritance is supported via:

```javascript
class Employee extends Person {

}
```
- Implicit inheritance to Object

##Overrides

- Access the Person class with "super"

```javascript
class Employee extends Person {
  doWork() {
    //super();//optionally call Superclass
    //by default using super() will invoke method
    //by the same name in superclass
    //Or override Superclass.doWork()
    return "did something";
  }
}
```
##Functional Programming

- forEach: Allows passing in a function
- map: Similar to Select in C#.  Can transform data by passing in a function.

##Arrows

- => has a lexical binding to this.  Meaning we no longer have to use the trick:

```javascript
//old way
it('this is self in a closure', function(done) {
  var self = this;
  self.name = "Brian";

  setTimeout(() => this{
    expect(self.name).toBe("Brian");
    done();
  }, 15);
});

//new way
it('lexically binds to this', function(done) {
  this.name = "Brian"

  setTimeout(() => this{
    expect(this.name).toBe("Brian");
    done();
  }, 15);
});
```
##Iterators

```javascript
//Low level example
let sum = 0;
let numbers = [1,2,3,4];
let iterator = numbers.values();
let next = iterator.next();
while(next.done){
  sum += next.value;
  next = iterator.next();
}
```
- for of similar to C#'s foreach.  Works with iterators that have no length and no known end.

```javascript
for(let n of numbers){
  console.log(n);
}
```

##Generators

- Generators are functions that create iterators.

```javascript
let numbers = function*(){
  yield 1;
  yield 2;
  yield 3;
}
```
##Comprehensions

-terse syntax for building arrays and generators.

```javascript
//Array comprehension syntax
var numbers = [for(n of [1,2,3]) n * n];
expect(numbers).toEqual(1,4,9);

//Array comp. with predicate
var numbers3 = [for (n of [1,2,3]) if(n > 1) n * n];
expect(numbers3).toEqual([4,9]);

//Generator syntax
var numbers3 = (for (n of [1,2,3]) n * n);
expect(Array.from(numbers3)).toEqual([1,4,9]);

//yield Generation
yield* (for (item of items) if(predicate(item)) item);
```

- Use Array comprehension when you want to be lazy.

##Modules

Originated with [CommonJS](http://www.commonjs.org/).  Then, Javascript broke away from the browser into stand alone apps like nodejs.  This made Asynchronous module loading more important.  AMD or Asynchrnous Module Definition arose in platforms like requireJS.  Script loading is also optimized at runtime to have fewer and smaller downloads.

During development we want the modules to be split up into individual parts.  Due to the difficulty in setup, it is unlikely we will see native module loading in the browsers for years to come.  RequireJS will still be needed.


##Using ES6 Today

- Angular 2.0, Ember and [Aurelia](http://aurelia.io/) are being developed in ES6.
- More and more companies are using ES6 in production today.
- Transpilers
- Execution environment:  node or browser
- Polyfills/Shims
- [ES6 Features](https://github.com/lukehoban/es6features#symbols)
- [More ES6 Features](https://github.com/addyosmani/es6-tools)
- [Compatability Chart](http://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es6/)
- ES6 and ES5 shims

[travis-url]:  https://travis-ci.org/pbrianmackey/ES6
[travis-image]: https://travis-ci.org/pbrianmackey/ES6.svg
